Task 1: Deploy
Deploy the attached VM

No answer needed

Task 2: Introduction

What networking constructs are used to direct traffic to the right application on a server?
Ans: Ports


How many of these are available on any network-enabled computer?

Ans: 65535

[Research] How many of these are considered "well-known"? (These are the "standard" numbers mentioned in the task)

Ans:1024

Task 3 : Nmap Switches

What is the first switch listed in the help menu for a 'Syn Scan' (more on this later!)?
Ans:-sS


Which switch would you use for a "UDP scan"?
Ans:-sU

If you wanted to detect which operating system the target is running on, which switch would you use?
Ans:-O

Nmap provides a switch to detect the version of the services running on the target. What is this switch?
Ans:-sV

The default output provided by nmap often does not provide enough information for a pentester. How would you increase the verbosity?
Ans:-v

Verbosity level one is good, but verbosity level two is better! How would you set the verbosity level to two?
(Note: it's highly advisable to always use at least this option)

Ans:-vv

What switch would you use to save the nmap results in three major formats?
Ans:-A

What switch would you use to save the nmap results in a "normal" format?
Ans:-oN

A very useful output format: how would you save results in a "grepable" format?
Ans:-oG

Sometimes the results we're getting just aren't enough. If we don't care about how loud we are, we can enable "aggressive" mode. This is a shorthand switch that activates service detection, operating system detection, a traceroute and common script scanning.

How would you activate this setting?
Ans:-A

How would you set the timing template to level 5?
Ans: -T5

How would you tell nmap to only scan port 80?
Ans: -p 80


How would you tell nmap to scan ports 1000-1500?
Ans: -p 1000-1500

How would you tell nmap to scan all ports?
Ans: -p-

How would you activate a script from the nmap scripting library (lots more on this later!)?
Ans:--script

How would you activate all of the scripts in the "vuln" category?
Ans:--script=vuln

Task 4: [Scan Types]Overview
No Answer Needed

Task 5:[Scan Types]Tcp Connect Scans

Which RFC defines the appropriate behaviour for the TCP protocol?
Ans: RFC 793


If a port is closed, which flag should the server send back to indicate this?
Ans:RST

Task 6: [Scan Types]SYN Scans
There are two other names for a SYN scan, what are they?
Ans: half-open , stealth


Can Nmap use a SYN scan without Sudo permissions (Y/N)?
Ans: N

Task 6:[Scan Types]UDP Scans

If a UDP port doesn't respond to an Nmap scan, what will it be marked as?
Ans: open|filtered

When a UDP port is closed, by convention the target should send back a "port unreachable" message. Which protocol would it use to do so?
Ans: ICMP

Task 8: [Scan Types]NULL,FIN and Xmas

Which of the three shown scan types uses the URG flag?
Ans:Xmas

Why are NULL, FIN and Xmas scans generally used?
Ans:Firewall evasion

Which common OS may respond to a NULL, FIN or Xmas scan with a RST for every port?
Ans: Microsoft windows

Task 9:[Scan Types] ICMP Network Scanning

How would you perform a ping sweep on the 172.16.x.x network (Netmask: 255.255.0.0) using Nmap? (CIDR notation)
Ans: nmap -sn 172.16.0.0/16

Task 10:[NSE Scripts]Overview

What language are NSE scripts written in?
Ans: lua

Which category of scripts would be a very bad idea to run in a production environment?
Ans: intrusive

Task 11:[NSE Scripts]Working with the NSE

What optional argument can the ftp-anon.nse script take?
Ans: maxlist

Task 12: [NSE Scripts]Searching for Scripts

Search for "smb" scripts in the /usr/share/nmap/scripts/ directory using either of the demonstrated methods.
What is the filename of the script which determines the underlying OS of the SMB server?

Ans:smb-os-discover.nse


Read through this script. What does it depend on?
Ans:smb-brute

Task 13:Firewall Evasion
Which simple (and frequently relied upon) protocol is often blocked, requiring the use of the -Pn switch?
Ans:ICMP

[Research] Which Nmap switch allows you to append an arbitrary length of random data to the end of packets?
Ans:--data-length

Task 14:Practical
Does the target (MACHINE_IP)respond to ICMP (ping) requests (Y/N)?
Ans: N

Perform an Xmas scan on the first 999 ports of the target -- how many ports are shown to be open or filtered?
Ans: 999


There is a reason given for this -- what is it?

Note: The answer will be in your scan results. Think carefully about which switches to use -- and read the hint before asking for help!
Ans: no response


Perform a TCP SYN scan on the first 5000 ports of the target -- how many ports are shown to be open?
Ans:5

Open Wireshark (see Cryillic's Wireshark Room for instructions) and perform a TCP Connect scan against port 80 on the target, monitoring the results. Make sure you understand what's going on.
Ans: No answer needed

Deploy the ftp-anon script against the box. Can Nmap login successfully to the FTP server on port 21? (Y/N)
Ans:Y

Task 15:Conclusion
No Answer Needed




